# Assessing Hemigrapsus oregonensis Glucose Metabolism under Temperature and Nutrient Stress

Many crustacean species have been affected by increasing temperatures due to temperature-related changes in ocean environments. Hemigrapsus oregonensis, or the hairy shore crab, is a native intertidal species to the Puget Sound. Due to its intertidal environment, they are known to withstand various levels of thermal stress. However, how glucose levels are affected under different feeding states and elevated temperatures remains unknown. Innovation of medical instruments for use in the field is a growing topic, due to expensive and non-portable equipment. We will also asses if a glucometer can be used as an efficient resource for monitoring glucose even in crustaceans. Seeing how glucose levels change over time and under different temperature conditions will reflect their metabolic processes and determine how much glucose is present and how temperature works as a stressor. Understanding how thermal stress impacts glucose metabolism is key for future conservation. Using two different levels of thermal stress, coupled with groups of fed and fasted crabs, we hypothesize that crabs under thermal stress will display altered glucose levels within different feeding states. 5 crabs were used in each group for a total of 20. Two groups consisted of fasted crabs at 13°C and 27°C, which did not receive food for the entirety of the project. The last two groups contained fed crabs who received food at the start of each trial, for a total of two times. This was in the form of bull kelp, Nereocystis luetkeana, due to its high carb nature. Hemolymph was extracted 5 times each trial for a total of 25 times, and read in a glucometer as well as a glucose assay, performed after the end of the experiment. We found that at the end of each trial, the fed groups had a higher glucose level compared to the fasted group. Our results also may have indicated a response in the Crustacean Hyperglycemic Hormone, as glucose was elevated in the fasted 27°C group due to higher temperatures. These preliminary results, coupled with further research, could help the conservation of invertebrates in the face of marine heatwaves and warming temperatures. As starvation and increased metabolism have been shown to be byproducts of these anthropogenic impacts. The use of a glucometer was deemed partly successful as a reading was achieved when sampling hemolymph, though this value did not correlate with the one later retrieved from the glucose assay, partly due to the absence of needed dilution methods. Further research could help propel innovation for medical equipment in the field, specifically. 

